[MUSIC]
In this video we're going to discuss
how organizations capture data,
how they store and process it, and
ultimately how they visualize it.
One piece of data won't provide much value
but when you look everything holistically,
the result will be better
decision making and insights.
With the very different types of data that
are available today, there are traditional
approaches and emerging approaches to what
organizations are doing with their data.
Let's start by talking about
the traditional approach where you need to
extract data from a relational
database in order to develop
a traditional segmentation
model from marketing program.
To share this with your client, you can
use tools like Excel, and Access and
PowerPoint to tell the story and
communicate the results.
When you think about new types
of data that are available
you need to take an innovative approach.
An example of this would be when you
have multiple types of data coming from
traditional databases as well
as something like social media.
You have all these different types of
data that you need to bring together
in order to build insights.
Using these different types of
data, you can tell the story of
what it means using advanced
visualization tools.
All of this data combined
can be used in a way that
allows organizations to make
decisions in real time.
You'll hear more about the different
types of data later this week but
data available to organizations is
coming from a wide variety of sources.
Mobile, web, email, social media, sensors,
operational data, logs, texts,
the lists goes on and on.
With all of this data we need to
look at four things to figure out
how we will get the insights
from this data.
One, how do we get the data?
Two, how do we store it?
Three, how we process the data?
And four,
how are we going to visualize the data?
Here is an example of how we can
capture different types of data
through one interaction and
use it make operational changes to
improve the customer experience.
Let's say your client is
a national pharmacy chain.
A customer uses her mobile device to chat
with customer service when she has issues
with her prescription not being filled
in a reasonable amount of time.
From this single chat,
the organization is able to collect
three primary pieces of data.
The device the customer
is using to communicate.
Texts from the logs that are being
captured during the chat.
An indicator of
the customer's preferences on
the channel that they
choose to communicate.
We can use this data and visualize it to
unveil segments in the customer population
that have an affinity for
one channel or the other.
I just talked about gathering data from a
mobile device but how else do we get data?
Manual input,
point of sale systems, web forms,
sensors, you get where I'm going and
I bet you can probably think of many more.
Let's say, you have a client that is
looking to increase multimedia sales.
We start by looking at
purchase patterns in
multimedia, and use this
to develop better marketing strategies.
What platforms are your customers using
to purchase multimedia, such as music,
movies, or television shows?
When are they purchasing them?
How much are they purchasing?
Not just understanding the segments, but
also the price points, the timing, and
the preferences for
one piece of multimedia over another.
We can get all of these data
from traditional data stores
as well as from other sources like third
party data suppliers, social media, and
user device data.
How do we store the data?
In the digital age,
there's so much data but
warehousing every bit and
byte isn't always the answer.
It has to be high quality data.
It has to be where organizational
leaders can access it.
And it has to be the data they
need to help assess their risk and
pursue strategic opportunities.
You need to think about the type
of data being collected.
The granularity of the data.
The time the data is captured.
And the completeness of the data set.
It's not up to an analytics person
to store the data efficiently.
We work with our technology people and
think about the business prob and
the data we're trying to collect.
Understanding that the platforms
will continue to evolve,
there will be traditional and
emerging platforms and it's
up to the data scientist to help to find
the analytics path and the data they need.
It is necessary to have a base
understanding of the different platforms
so that we're asking intelligent questions
to store the data that is out there.
In many organizations, a data and
analytics person would work with
the technology department to figure out
what the right platform is to collect,
store and analyze the data.
How do we process this data?
Once organizations have the data and
it's stored, the goal
is to transform it into
insights that help address complex,
strategic and operational challenges.
And in many cases gain that
competitive advantage.
Our clients often think it's an either-or,
but traditional and
emerging data both serve a purpose.
Structured data, available in databases
and spreadsheets fit into the traditional
model, and social media and wearable
data fits into the emerging platforms.
It's up to the people doing the analytics
in an effective technology team
to figure out the best platform.
How do you process these data sets?
We use software packages like SAS,
R, Excel and Access.
But it's on us as the analytics team
to work with our clients to identify
the tools that will solve the issues for
us today but we also need think
about what implication does that have for
building the organization in the future.
We work with our clients to understand
the issues, come up with hypotheses and
then determine if we need business
intelligent tools.
And finally,
what tools help us visualize the data and
tells us a story of what the data means.
Let's talk about the key tools and
technologies available to harness all of
the power of the data that's out there.
There are static desktop graphics
like Excel or PowerPoint.
We can use BI reporting dashboards that
are regularly refreshed to show important
operational data.
An example is Microsoft Power BI which
is a collection of online services and
features that enable users to find and
visualized data, share discoveries and
collaborate in intuitive ways.
There is Google's platform,
dynamic web or there's G predicts.
All our tools that our analytics
teams work on with our clients.
There are also dynamic web
visualization tools that allow for
interactive visualization,
like QlikView, Tableau and Spotfire.
Next week, you'll learn about some of
the uses and the benefits of these tools.
In this video, we talked about
how organizations capture data,
how they store it, how they process it.
And finally, how they visualize it and use
to tell a story or answer a key question.
[MUSIC]